---
title: "Abstract, Techqueria and Latinas in Tech's Vida Latina"
description: "Techqueria, Latinas in Tech and Abstract are coming together to celebrate the vidas [lives] and collective power of the Latina/x community in the tech industry!"
date: 2019-09-19
image: "/assets/img/events/2019-09-19.jpeg"
photos: https://photos.app.goo.gl/dPdBDcMGnGTzfdDs8
link: https://www.eventbrite.com/e/abstract-techqueria-and-latinas-in-techs-vida-latina-tickets-70580077913
organizations:
  - "Abstract"
  - "Latinas in Tech"
locations:
  - "San Francisco"
---

Techqueria, Latinas in Tech and Abstract are coming together to celebrate the vidas (lives) and collective power of the Latina/x community in the tech industry!

Join us for a unique Latinx Heritage Month event with fun stories, networking, food, and music representing the diversity of our communities and experiences. This event will take place at the Abstract office and rooftop.

As an event focused on celebrating the Latina/x community, we extend a special invitation to women and non-binary adults in our networks and beyond. Space is limited and available on a first-come, first-served. RSVP today!

## FAQs

### Is there a Code of Conduct?

Yes, you can find it at https://techqueria.org/code-of-conduct

### Are there ID or minimum age requirements to enter the event?

Yes, you must be 18+ to attend this event and we do check ID for drinks.

### How can I contact the organizer with any questions?

Please reach out to organizers@techqueria.org with any questions.

### Do I have to bring my printed ticket to the event?

No, as long as you have your QR code from Eventbrite, you're good to go!

### Is my registration fee or ticket transferrable?

No

### Is it ok if the name on my ticket or registration doesn't match the person who attends?

No

### Is there a place to hang out after the event ends?

Yes, you are invited to hang out with other attendees at Charmaine's Rooftop Bar & Lounge after the event which is a few minutes walking from Abstract.