https://www.eventbrite.com/e/panel-being-latinx-in-the-music-industry-tickets-71922808055

Panel: Being Latinx in the Music Industry

https://img.evbuc.com/https%3A%2F%2Fcdn.evbuc.com%2Fimages%2F71940651%2F249256871414%2F1%2Foriginal.20190907-190746?w=800&auto=compress&rect=0%2C0%2C2160%2C1080&s=290b4989beb5f386bbdd53d6f720b92b

https://www.facebook.com/events/232719420986645/

Celebrate Hispanic Heritage Month with Techqueria, Jopwell and Splice; get some empanadas, drinks and enjoy the music!
About this Event
Join us to celebrate Hispanic Heritage month the best way we know how to do it! we'll be hosting a panel with 3 latinx in the music industry, that will share about their journey, the community, and their experiences. Followed by a party where we'll enjoy their music and get the opportunity to connect with other members of the community.

Schedule:

6:00pm-6:45pm Networking, Food, Music

6:45pm-7:45pm Panel Discussion

7:45pm-8:00pm Q/A Audience

8:00pm-9:00pm + Networking, Food, Music

Panelists:

Ricardo Galbis runs an electronic music label and brand called Subdrive, which is comprised of label releases from up and coming talent, a long-running podcast, events, and a panel series, and is a senior product designer at Splice.

DJ Bembona is a Puerto Rican-Panamanian DJ, Multi-Platform Artist & Activist, born & raised in Brooklyn, NY. Her work represents & pushes forward the Afro-Diasporadical movement, Latinx/Indigenous/Caribbean/African, with the purpose of empowering & bridging the gap between POC communities, generations, activist work & beyond.

Santi Danino Beck i s a Musician, Hardvard Graduate, from Lima, Peru, and was raised on Latin music before moving to Washington, D.C. and falling in love with pop and American R&B. Andrew’s parents were both musicians - his father an Israeli-born violinist, his mother an opera singer - who raised him on classical music and jazz, before he took a rebellious turn toward old school hip-hop.

- There will be light bites (empanadas), beer and wine and refreshments!

Thanks to our sponsors:

Jopwell is the leading career advancement platform for Black, Latinx, and Native American students and professionals. We focus on connecting our candidates with our partner companies, who are committed to building a diverse and inclusive workforce.

Splice As advocates for artists everywhere, we’re building a creative ecosystem for music producers. With this ecosystem, we’re cultivating a global community of creators that fosters inspiration, connection, focus, and growth.

Techqueria is a nonprofit that empowers Latinx professionals in the tech industry by building networking and career advancement opportunities.

- Photographs and/or video might be taken at the event. By taking part in this event you grant the event organizers full rights to use the images resulting from the photography/video filming, and any reproductions or adaptations of the images for fundraising, publicity or other purposes to help grow the community.

Date And Time
Tue, September 24, 2019

6:00 PM – 9:00 PM EDT

Add to Calendar

Location
Splice

35 East 21st Street

New York, NY 10010

View Map